=pod

=head1 NAME

topstat - simple statics for stdin with top-like interface

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  printf "12 foo\n13 bar\n" | topstat

=head1 DESCRIPTION

topstat reads lines from stdin, generates statitics from these lines and
present them in a top-like interface. Every line must contain a number
as first element, the rest of the line is interpreted as identifier for
that line. Number and identifier are split by consecutive whitespace.

=head1 INSTALLATION

First get the source code,

  go get github.com/mdom/topstat

then fetch the dependencies,

  go get

and build the program.

  go build

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4 

=item -m, --metric METRIC

Selects what metrics to display and in what order. Possible values
are I<sum>, I<average>, I<seen>, I<last-seen>, I<min>, I<max> and
I<decay>. Defaults to I<sum> and I<average>.

=item -i, --interval INTERVAL

Delay between screen updates in seconds. Default to 2.

=item -p, --purge STRATEGY

Every second topstat sorts all elements by STRATEGY and only keeps the
first elements. How many are kept is determined by the I<--keep>
options. Defaults to I<decay>.

=item -k, -keep NUM

Number of elements to keep in every purge. Defaults to 1000.

=item -h, --help

Prints a short help message and exits.

=item --rate-unit

Sets the time frame in which a rate is describes. Possible values are
I<second>, I<minute> and I<hour>.

=back

=head1 METRICS

=over 4

=item Min

The smallest value for this element.

=item Max

The biggest value for this element.

=item Sum

The sum of all values for this element.

=item Average

The average value of all values for this element. This corresponds to the the
sum of all values divided by how often the element occured.

=item Rate

This metrics describes how often the element occured on average in a specific
time frame. The time frame is configurable via I<--rate-unit>.

=back

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright 2014 Mario Domgoergen L<E<lt>mario@domgoergen.comE<gt>>

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

=cut
